# Related Work

In the CoNLL-2002 shared task, Carreras et al. (2002) obtained among the best results on both Dutch and Spanish by combining several small fixed-depthdecisiontrees. Nextyear, in the CoNLL-2003 Shared Task, Florian et al. (2003) obtained the best score on German by combining the output of four diverse classifiers. Qi et al. (2009) later improved on this with a neural network by doing unsupervised learning on a massive unlabeled corpus.
Several other neural architectures have previously been proposed for NER. For instance, Collobert et al. (2011) uses a CNN over a sequence of word embeddings with a CRF layer on top. This can be thought of as our first model without character-level embeddings and with the bidirectional LSTM being replaced by a CNN. More recently, Huang et al. (2015) presented a modelsimilar to our LSTM-CRF, but using hand-crafted spelling features. Zhou and Xu (2015) also used a similar model and adapted it to the semantic role labeling task. Lin and Wu (2009) used a linear chain CRF with L 2 regularization, they added phrase cluster features extracted from the web data and spelling features. Passos et al. (2014) also used a linear chain CRF with spelling features and gazetteers.
Language independent NER models like ours have also been proposed in the past. Cucerzan 267 and Yarowsky (1999; 2002) present semi-supervised bootstrapping algorithms for named entity recognition by co-training character-level (word-internal) and token-level (context) features. Eisenstein et al. (2011) use Bayesian nonparametrics to construct a database of named entities in an almost unsupervised setting. Ratinov and Roth (2009) quantitatively compare several approaches for NER and build their own supervised model using a regularized average perceptron and aggregating context information.
Finally, there is currently a lot of interest in models for NER that use letter-based representations. Gillick et al. (2015) model the task of sequence-labeling as a sequence to sequence learning problem and incorporate character-based representations into their encoder model. Chiu and Nichols (2015) employ an architecture similar to ours, but instead use CNNs to learn character-level features, in a way similar to the work by Santos and Guimar˜ aes (2015).