# Paper title

Improving Massively Multilingual Neural Machine Translation and Zero-Shot Translation	

# link

https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.acl-main.148.pdf	

# 摘要

Massively multilingual models for neural machine translation (NMT) are theoretically attractive, but often underperform bilingual models and deliver poor zero-shot translations. In this paper, we explore ways to improve them. We argue that multilingual NMT requires stronger modeling capacity to support language pairs with varying typological characteristics, and overcome this bottleneck via language-specific components and deepening NMT architectures. We identify the off-target translation issue (i.e. translating into a wrong target language) as the major source of the inferior zero-shot performance, and propose random online backtranslation to enforce the translation of unseen training language pairs. Experiments on OPUS-100 (a novel multilingual dataset with 100 languages) show that our approach substantially narrows the performance gap with bilingual models in both oneto-many and many-to-many settings, and improves zero-shot performance by ∼10 BLEU, approaching conventional pivot-based methods.	

backtranslation：反向翻译  
[?] pivot-based methods

# 要解决什么问题

问题1：多语言NMT性能差于双语NMT。	  
问题2：多语言NMT难以处理zero-shot问题。

# 作者的主要贡献

问题1： language-specific components and deepening NMT architectures	  
问题2：random online backtranslation

# 得到了什么结果

OPUS-100，	
与双语翻译模型的差距缩小。  
处理zero-shot的性能比pivot-based methods提升10 BLEU。

# 关键字	

zero-shot
